extinction rebellion is not the
stupidest social movement I have ever
seen in my life
however spent a large part of my life
studying the history of social and
political movements and they get very
very stupid alright so the first thing
to say is there's some fundamental point
here which is any group of people have
to decide who you like this is I am an
old digital fairly pointless mine site
and if you don't have a group of people
who decide stuff that someone will
decide anyway I want to suggest that the
rebellion the international rebellion is
on the 7th October so you could come to
me and say hang on one sec you know how
come you're deciding now was so special
about you and then you could say well
I'm going to set up this process through
which you can decide X and then someone
else could go along to you and say in a
minute
what gives you the right to decide how
to decide this cosine this is the role
of centralized actually you have to have
a group that makes that decision up they
can make enough to this to get away for
the bottom line is you have to have a
group that decides oh in
should have got that yeah Piper group
that decides how to decide and you just
have to do it in his favor lose first
thing at the 59th so we were a
centralized group who was required to
correct this decentralized movement we
didn't say this is what we think and all
these other the ideas to come reset this
is what we think if you don't agree with
us that's cool you know set up your own
social movement but this is what we've
taken this is how we're going to do it
so you know this is a paradox isn't it
you know this is when you actually get
to you know to the actuality of
organizing things these are the main
issues have to do with it's not some
high moral politics about you know
hierarchy or whatever it's about
actually getting a job done taking money
yeah you put a take it and it doesn't
matter that it comes from some on rich
that's just a virtue thing you know it's
like I don't want to be associated to
these rich people not as a Meyer I mean
it might matter in nineteen ninety or
something all year 2000 it doesn't
matter in 2019 we need that money to
grow the movement so let's just take it
that's the fundamental point you know
rich people don't want to die as well
rich people care about their kids
so something fundamentally structural is
changing here in the global social
structure though all those old stories
those left-wing stories of had well
maybe they're still cracked but as good
evidence to show that they're not which
is the climate crisis affects everyone
including these super rich people so
what does this super rich person do
right I mean what do we want them to do
commit suicide and burn all their money
no no what we want them to do is do the
decent thing ring us up and give us that
million quid because we need that the
fact of the matter is we need to change
the global economy in the next 12 months
right in order to do that some people
are gonna have to get paid it's just a
reality of a situation some people are
gonna have to administrate a
mobilization of hundreds of thousands of
people you can't do that through
voluntary activity you want to pay
someone to do that you need to pay
someone to take the emails off you know
to open the post these things are all
the boring stuff that requires social
movements and social movements needs
some
this idea that you know you don't have
hierarchy and all the rest of if
everyone's a volunteer it's actually
bollocks in my opinion because what it
means is is people that have got the
time end up making the decisions right
end up like doing stuff and becoming
powerful and it's no surprise that the
people that have got the time are older
people and middle-class people
so there's this idea so eager latarian
sort of paradise because no one's
getting paid it's just a Pyrrhic lee not
cracked
you know there's thousands young people
when they give all their shitty jobs and
we're at full-time forex teams from
rebellion and they're not able to do so
because they've got to do some board job
in the evening when they could be doing
talks because they don't got the cash so
let's get them the cash right and
another demographic of months right or
parents you know they've got kids so
who's gonna pay for the child care who's
gonna pay for the babysitter right well
if you're poor you're not gonna have
that money so let's give those people
some money
so they can do what they're crying out
to doubt is the work full-time
extinction rebellion or wherever noon
we're talking about I guess so you've
heard the pitch you've just heard his
mumbling stumbling self-effacing
explanation for why centralization it's
necessary hierarchy is necessary to some
extent an unequal even authoritarian
command structure is necessary and he
presumptively will be at the top of that
structure then most importantly of all
you've heard why rich people need to
line up and give him their money maybe
fairly convincing maybe you didn't I've
been lately talking to one of my
long-term viewers who says that he's an
anarchist well if the end goal you agree
with is anarchism and what you want are
to take the steps along the path leading
towards anarchy
then that would completely reject this
kind of approach that is instead not
merely tending towards hierarchy but to
ah cracy it's going to reproduce all the
advantages and all the disadvantages of
a large well-funded organization like
peda
people with the Ethical Treatment of
Animals and while they pretend to
radicalism and they claim they're going
to change the world in just the next 12
months
this group extinction rebellion you can
look back at the history of peda people
who have contributed animals and see
that with their millions of dollars and
their huge numbers of peed staff just
how little and just how gradually they
have changed the world with equally
pious motives and with an equally great
sense of urgency